[Music]
Half an hour away from the opens in Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Ivon Man
with David and Glenn.
>> Good morning. Let's get to your top
stories today. Stocks across the Asia
Pacific are edging higher as traders
await key US and Chinese data this week.
Possible extension as well to Beijing's
tariff deadline. Oil declines ahead of
President Trump's summit this week with
Vladimir Putin. Nvidia and AMD said to
agree to pay 15% of their China chip
revenue to the US government as part of
a deal to secure export licenses.
>> Also ahead, lithium stocks jump as CL
suspending operations at a key mine
after failing to get a permit renewed.
>> Plus, we take a close look at China's
campaign to re in a fierce price war
among businesses as deflationary
pressures persist.
[Music]
right the market narrative is changing
somewhat from about an hour back and
it's important to keep in mind Japan is
shut you don't have a big bulk of volume
so far we'll see how that changes when
greater Chinese opens up greater China
opens up uh 210 to 1% is the open in in
Taiwan I think the story when you look
at equity markets is undisturbed Urbed
by the Nvidia news which we'll get to in
a moment as it gets US futures are
punching slightly uh to the upside. Uh
very quickly let's have a look at FX
markets where it's really when you
depends where you look but on the euro
side of things the euro is stronger the
dollar though against almost everything
else almost against everything else uh
is slightly on the stronger side of
things. Of course the waiting on the
euro will will do that to you as you can
see dollar yen is on the way down. Bond
futures are flat if not to the upside
when you look at the long end of the
curve here. We'll get to the preview of
inflation numbers coming through on
Tuesday. Um out of United States, so
we're coming off some lackluster
inflation numbers coming out of China.
This is this is a big story of course
we're tracking in the commodities
markets. Two things Brent on the
prospect of more supply coming to the
market. Number one. Number two is gold.
We're getting at least we're still
waiting for more clarity coming out of
the White House and really what the
policy is as it pertains to tariffs if
any on on futures coming in. iron ore in
Singapore just to point out flip the
boards please is now trading at a
multi-week high the approach to the open
it's a big earnings week uh A50 futures
to the upside dollar China just a touch
below that 719 handle Ivon
>> yeah pretty pivotal week when it comes
to Chinese equities you take a look at
what you said you mentioned about what
we're seeing in earnings the likes of
you know the Alibabas 10ens of the world
be reporting this week as well you add
that to the fundamental picture and the
data dump to end up the week certainly
that is going to be a sign of you know
how things are going to lead to to the
direction of markets are concerned,
right? Because you have a bit of
corporate feel. You also have what
happens in the data front as well. So,
that's going to be pretty interesting,
Dave, I think. But when it comes to what
we saw so far, the inflation numbers or
the lack thereof still in China,
unchanged, uh, but there were some
signs, some signs of those deflationary
pressures easing still.
>> Yeah. Well, you have to look really
close. Very, very close. Right. I think
Goldman Sachs had a very good point when
you look at it is that you really will
need to see demand side pick up to be
able to sustainably make a conclusion
that that's going to go away. And I
think what Goldman's also going to tell
us later on is when you look at things
like to the housing uh the monthly
activity numbers coming out on Friday,
they're saying high frequency numbers on
um home home sales, auto purchases
um are suggesting weakness in that
space. So we'll look at what that means
and of course commentary coming on to
the big earnings coming through this
week. Uh the other uh big news out of
China will be lithium. Yes. Given CL
that announcement a couple of minutes
ago and of course the reporting we had.
So we're looking at this whole cohort of
lithium related stocks on the back of
that output curve.
>> Yeah. I mean CL just confirming our
reporting of that Bloomberg scoop about
them halting uh their operations at the
UT mining uh as this permit expired last
week on the 9th. So they're seeking to
renew it. Um but yes, for now the UTRA
mining halt has limited impact on
operations. so far. But it it really
kind of coincides this whole permit
issue with the whole anti-evolution
theme over capacity and the like. So the
timing of it is quite interesting.
>> Yeah. And I wonder if we can put those
two things together. We could actually
see we will get market reaction as you
can see on your screens. Lithium stocks
across the region are lit uh in many
many ways. Okay. Uh so that's one sector
to watch. We talked about chips and
Nvidia. Gold is one thing. We talked
about this. Uh we're still waiting for
more clarity as far as what the White
House is looking uh at there as far as
policy goes. And of course food, the
reason we bring that up is the inflation
numbers which came out in the weekend.
So food, alcohol, and tobacco actually
saw, you know, quite a decent drop,
negative.8% that came out. The inflation
numbers coming through.
>> Okay. So maybe that helped a bit in
terms of making the numbers a little bit
better. But then again, PPI prices,
right? We're still talking about 34
months of deflation that persisted in
the factory floors there. So you're
still seeing, you know, you know,
corporates are not able to really pass
on some of these rising costs and the
like to consumers as well. in terms of
your agenda here today. So, we talked
about that. We're in the window for
credit data in the next few days as well
before that data dump. South City is
liquidation hearing later on today as
well. As we said, earnings, earnings,
earnings. So, it certainly is one thing
to watch this week. A little bit of
everything. Let's talk a little bit more
about top story here. Right now,
Bloomberg has learned that Nvidia and
AMD have agreed to pay the US government
15% of their revenue from Chinese chip
sales as part of a deal to secure export
licenses. Let's bring in our China
correspondent Melo on what we know. so
far about this.
>> Yes, this uh was first reported by the
FTM. We understand it came after Jensen
Huang met with the US president again
and then after that the export licenses
for the H20 chips were finally granted
after a few weeks of stalling by the US
commerce department and it seems like
now these two companies AMD and Nvidia
had agreed to give the US government 15%
of their sale, their China sale to the
government. It's not clear what the US
government will use that money for, but
it's a sort of quid proquo agreement
that is quite unprecedented and it
really sets a new sort of standard for
the types of compliance costs that ch
companies dealing with China could
possibly face. It also raises a question
as to whether or not the US government
is willing to trade off security
concerns by rolling back even more of
these export controls in exchange for a
cut in revenue from some of these tech
companies.
this social media account tied to state
media urging consumers to avoid invaded
chips. What's that about? Yes, this is
on the Yuan Tantian WeChat account which
is tied to uh the US the Chinese state
broadcaster CCTV and it's a very long
post detailing how the US has the
ability to install back doors into US
chips like the H20 on both the hardware
and the software front and it can do
things like number one remote shutdown
of the chips, number two uh monitoring
of usage activities, number three
location tracking and number four um
restricting uh usage uh on these chips
and it's so it says that basically the
takeaway there is that Chinese companies
need to be very aware and all countries
in fact need to be aware of that and to
build up their own sort of secure and
controllable software and hardware
ecosystem to counter what they see as AI
hegemony from the US. Um, and so this is
a warning from state TV, a sort of
window guidance for Chinese companies
urging them not to buy those chips. Not
just because of the security risk there,
but also because number one, they're not
energy efficient as well. And they're
not the most advanced chips that Nvidia
can offer. So there's no reason that
Chinese companies should be buying them.
And it of course could be a hit to
Nvidia's uh profits given that we know
the company had been lobbing very hard
to sell these H20 chips to China. Now,
uh, the the state TV is really
discouraging that.
>> Mim, I want to get to another story
because we're seeing lithium, you know,
anything that's related with lithium now
is up. Guangjo lithium futures,
according to traders that we're talking
to, are up by the daily limit of 8%
right now on the back of the CL story.
Um, it's interesting the amount of
interest even leading up to this
announcement where people are flying
drones around this area just to gauge
what was going on. What do we know at
this point?
>> Yeah, because this particular lithium
plant is a very important one. accounts
for at least about 3% of globally mined
lithium. And so the fact that CL has not
been able to renew the permit, that is,
you know, raising speculation about
whether whether or not this is part of
the anti-involution push, right? And
while the company is still in talks with
government officials to renew that
permit, which could take months, it's
not clear whether they will get that
renewal. And so we had already seen a
lot of volatility to lithium prices in
recent weeks. It was up about uh I
believe 9% or so last week. It hit a
high in late July about 80,000 UN um
before the Guangjo stock exchange
actually actually clamped down on
speculative trading. But if you take a
long view, you look at where we are now
compared to the peak a few years ago,
2022, we're still about seven or eight
times um cheaper in terms of lithium
lithium prices compared to then. So
there's a lot of supply glut that has
built up over the last few years that
has been very bad for lithium producers.
The the impact though on CL and these
battery makers is a little bit more
complex. we see a market reaction on the
lithium uh companies but then for CL and
other companies it could hit their
profit margins but it seems like
investors still seeing this as a
positive for CL
>> all right uh M thank you M low there
horse on all things that we're covering
here this morning in terms of market
moving news uh CL also those shares are
indicated higher in Hong Kong you update
once we get that pre-market open up as
well let's get to another story we have
to talk about what's going to happen in
Alaska as well NATO secretary general
Maretta says that this week's USRussia
summit may open the door to negotiations
about Ukrainian territory. Meanwhile,
sources say EU nations are seeking to
talk to President Trump before his
meeting on Friday with Vladimir Putin.
For more, let's bring in our news desk
editor Bolas Pence on more. Um there's a
lot of speculation that you know maybe
we are getting close to the end of some
sort of you know with the war and maybe
even the prospect of more supply heading
into this oil market too. What's
expected today? Well, this certainly has
been a very fastmoving story since that
summit was announced in Alaska that
we're preparing for at the end of the
week. And what we're seeing now is the
opinions from all sides, all the
interested parties coming in. What we're
hearing from uh Mark Rut, the secretary
general of NATO, is that it looks like
some territory territorial exchange
might be uh on the table. uh that there
might be a recognition uh that the
current battle lines, the current
current front lines need to be
recognized as at least a starting point
for those negotiations. Now, how the
Ukrainians feel about that is a
different uh question and we have seen
different voices emerging from the EU as
well. The EU foreign policy chief Kakala
said that Russia should not be rewarded
for its aggression uh with more
territory. Uh so that will be a very
delicate dance in the leadup to that
summit this Friday.
>> Yeah. And you know I'm curious now
whether or not a deal is actually
possible with without the blessings of
of the Ukrainians here because at some
point they will need to come in and I
guess in many ways rubber stamp what was
agreed on.
>> Yeah. I mean we saw that uh Vice
President JD Vance met with Ukrainian
officials in the UK uh over the weekend.
So it does seem like they are involved
in this negotiations. There's a question
whether President Zilinski will be in
Alaska for the summit itself. But
certainly there's no deal without
Ukraine being involved. There's no truce
without Ukraine signing off on anything.
So the president, the US president will
need to work very hard to bring them on
board to whatever he agrees to with
President Putin.
>> Right. Fantastic. Balas. Thank you so
much, Bas Pence. They're setting us up
for a very big week as far as
geopolitics goes. Coming up on shows,
John Woods joins us from Lombard ODA
telling us why they expect US growth to
slow and the labor market to soften in
the second half. What it means for the
Feds as tariffs take effect. Counting
down to the open of trade in Shanghai
and Shenzhen and here in Hong Kong, just
under 18 minutes away, we're watching
lithium and lithium themes very closely.
CL indicated higher this Monday. This is
the China show.
It's looking to be a pretty busy week
this week, right? Take a look when it
comes to the data front. We talked about
the data dump on Friday with China. The
US CPI print that's going to be the next
one after what we saw in that jobs
report that really kind of turned all
these rate cut expectations around.
Certainly whether it kind of justifies
the market pricing of maybe two rate
cuts this year from the Fed. That
certainly is going to be one thing. And
then we al also have a RBA decision on
Tuesday. It's almost guaranteed they're
going to cut in Australia as well. BOT
is going to meet but then again we got
to really focus on a lot of the earnings
picture and that Trump Putin summit as
well this week.
>> Yeah. Uh which will be indicative really
when you look at the outlook for oil
number one and also the prospects what
that means for a China US that's true
part of negotiations there.
>> Yeah. Of course we talk about that truce
right between the US and China that
actually ends on the 12th. Yeah. So we
ought to come down to that as well. So
certainly whether that gets rolled over
is certainly one thing to watch as well.
Well, let's bring in John Woods, Asia
CIO and head of investment solutions at
Lombard Odier. It's a big week. What do
you focus on the most?
>> Well, I think the uh the US China
deadline tomorrow, as you pointed out,
um is super important. Uh my sense is
this is essentially a trade-off between
rare earths and semiconductors. Um I
don't think um either side have quite
the upper hand uh that they may think
they do. So I think that as you point
out they will be rolled over for another
90 days and allow negotiators but on
both sides really to try and hash out um
a uh a working deal. My sense is there
somehow connected also um inevitably to
the uh uh talks between Russia uh and
the United States in Alaska as well. Um
all these things essentially tend to be
interconnected
>> um particularly around the uh eventual
resolution of uh tariffs. the the window
that's been given, let's let's let's use
the 90 days in the US and China. That
seems to be a point where hopefully if
Donald Trump gets what he wants, the end
of the tariff conversation and hopefully
the end of several wars. What does the
outlook for equities going into that
window look like?
>> Well, you know, um equities right now
are pretty much trading at at or close
to all-time highs, aren't they? If you
look at Europe, if you look at Japan, if
you look at the US, there seems to be a
substantial amount of optimism uh and
good news baked into uh those prices.
When we get to these sort of uh
extremely elevated uh levels, obviously
the focus then turns to valuations.
People start worrying and and focusing
on which market is the most expensive
and which subsequently is likely uh most
to correct. Um I think one of the
positives we've seen in the last um 6
to9 months is the degree of rotation
from the US to uh other markets. In my
mind this is broadening the equity uh
offering. Uh at Lombard ODA we are a
little less focused on developed market
equities which we think um uh are
extremely expensive. It's again a
possibly a function more of uh multiples
and earnings uh and tilting our
attention much more now to emerging
markets where we think more value lies
and where we also see uh the liquidity
uh rotating into. So that's an area of
focus right now that we we think offers
value.
>> And when you add those ingredients, I
think China markets is the answer in
some ways, right? When you have
liquidity, uh you also have a bit more
of the southbound flows and the like.
And you know, the IPO market is hot in
Hong Kong. So certainly that's helping
things. And then you have also um the
these resilient markets in the face of
tariffs, but you're not quite convinced
yet to kind of go forward.
>> Again, I would I would extend that
observation around uh multiples and
earnings to China as well. I think it's
more of a multiple story than earnings.
Earnings I think are likely to come into
the mid single high single digits uh for
this quarter. So it's not really going
to set the world on fire. At the same
time we saw um pees last year around uh
10 times. They've ticked up higher now
to around 14 14 and a half times. So the
market is beginning to look expensive. I
would position China more as a
diversifier than an outright overweight.
uh and that's certainly the way that we
look at it as part of the emerging
market complex rather than a standalone
uh uh market in itself.
>> What would be the overweight within EM
if it's not China?
>> Actually uh we do have a preference for
India.
>> Uh we do think the Indian market has a
degree of uh insulation and protection
from global volatility that that
interest us. Well, that's what we
thought until last week until they
became the target of Donald Trump's
>> one of the worst in terms of getting a
deal.
>> Again, um I think the India story is
possibly tied up with the Russia uh uh
US uh talks as well. Again, I believe
all these uh subjects are somewhat
interconnected and if we were to get
some sort of uh working if the direction
of travel was towards a resolution with
Russia, I think the pressure on India
might actually diminish somewhat. But
but sorry to come back to your point. I
I think that um South Korea, Taiwan,
India have frankly more upside than the
China story right here, right now.
>> Okay. U you're still expecting growth
though in the US to slow down. What you
know, is it going to justify what the
market's pricing in that the Fed's going
to have to start cutting at least two
times this week? I mean, this inflation
print this week, this year I should say,
but the inflation print this week is
probably going to be quite significant.
>> Yeah. Our view has always been that the
uh the labor market in the United States
is perhaps not as robust as the market
was originally um anticipating and that
I think was underscored by the job
numbers that we saw published recently.
Our view is has remained unchanged. I
think the Fed will actually cut three
times not two times uh this year with
the first cut
>> in uh September. Uh again, I think the
Fed will look through any short-term
spike in inflation caused by tariffs. Uh
because I think their underlying focus
has to be on the health and quality of
the labor market, which in our view is
perhaps a little less um robust and
strong as as the market might
anticipate.
>> That's a that's a cut at every remaining
meeting if I'm not mistaken.
>> Correct. Out of the Fed. Might that
change the market's view on the US
markets? Might that be the new driver of
US equity markets if coming back? Well,
if you can completely uh uh distinguish
between markets and and the the economy,
then yes, I think it's probably it's
probably good news. But the Fed in my
mind will be cutting because precisely
we are seeing deceleration in growth,
not a recession. The base case is not a
recession. It's for a slowdown. I I I
think that's an important point to make.
Uh but nevertheless, when you start to
see um unemployment ticking a little
higher and jobs creation um be beginning
to bit a bit more sluggish, you know,
there's an underlying uh uh consumption
and demand story there that needs to be
uh focused on. But but overall, I think
it's probably dollar negative actually.
Um and I I I think that uh in turn that
becomes a little more emerging market
positive. That's right.
>> So uh that's another reason uh why we we
we tend to have this focus on the EM
space.
>> Uh you're also neutral gold. I want to
ask you why. Is it just things have gone
too far?
>> Um yes. Uh gold had something of a
vitigenous um parabolic rise in uh
price, didn't it? Um and it's almost
inevitable that you will see a period of
consolidation, which by the way is what
I think we're seeing. Uh now obviously
there's a huge amount of geopolitical
uncertainty and that tends to benefit
the price of gold. But in our mind,
frankly, there were other opportunities.
There were more from an asset allocation
perspective. uh there were uh other
opportunities uh meaning take profit on
the gold position that we'd held for two
years and allocate into more profitable
areas.
>> Okay, we will have more with John Woods
in a couple of minutes. Asia CIO, their
head of investment solutions Asia at
Lombard ODA, we're looking at CL very
much in focus given all the massive news
coming through out of the company, the
lithium mine and uh the stoppage there
which the company by the way says will
not have material impact on operations.
But as you can see though, the rest of
the lithium complex, not just in China,
but across the region, we're looking at
gains in this order of about 115, in
some cases even more when you look at
some of the names in Australia. We'll
have more on the story coming up. The
opening bell under 7 minutes away.
Futures are doing this. We I'll leave
you with a look at that and we'll get
you a fuller preview on the other side
of this break. This is the China show.
Good morning.
[Music]
If you're long lithium, this is
certainly your day. Take a look when it
comes to when it comes to CL and the
like here. Um, this is on the back of
them confirming our Bloomberg scoop that
they suspended production at that mine.
So you are seeing the lights of TNC
lithium gang lithium are surging double
digits here this morning we're up some
15% for TNI you take a look at the rest
of the lithium space in Asia that's also
lit as Dave has talked about here China
renaissance that's also one story it
continues on to extend those gains after
what we heard from Balf Fang the former
chairman and founder of the firm was
released from detention according to our
sources there
>> yeah so that stock already on Friday saw
some massive upside we are extending
that today going into the market open
the cash market Hanging Index, Hen
China, Hanging Tech where we are
entering a big earnings week. You have
10 cent coming out along with some other
index heavyweights. So, keep an eye on
that. Uh we'll talk more about these
revisions we're seeing underneath the
hood in a moment with our folks at uh
Bloomberg Intelligence. Now, uh all all
things equal, nothing much to note as
far as the fix was concerned. That's
point number one. Point number two is in
case you missed that, the inflation
print which came out on Saturday, not as
bad as compared to estimates at least on
CPI. Although on PPI we did see uh an
extension of the streak of monthly
declines. The open is next. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to the show.
Counting down to the open of trade here.
40 seconds away. Just a reminder that
Japan is shut for Mountain Day. So
that's a big chunk of uh volume that's
going to be offline today. No cash
treasuries as well. Treasury futures
last we checked were on the way up. So
yields are pushing lower ahead of USCPI
coming out tomorrow.
>> Yeah, that certainly is a big one to
watch in the macro front here and what
this means when it comes to uh of course
the Fed direction and really uh after
that weak Labor Day data that we got
just a few weeks ago. Certainly there is
signs of Fed cut expectations are
certainly changing here uh every day.
Now you take a look when it comes to
China markets. So it's a pivotal week,
right? You take a look at when it comes
to earnings like so the big tech also
when it comes to big data as well. We
got the data down on the end of the
week. So there is a lot hanging here uh
on equity markets here in general. Today
is a lithium story which we'll get to
about a little bit on CL. But there you
go. The open is looking like this in
Shanghai. We're slightly to the upside
here in the CSI 300 as well. We're
watching very closely CATL shares. The
Asshare market. The A shares are not
doing anything right now. Uh but what
we're watching very closely is lithium
futures of what we're hearing with the
Guangjo contracts from according to some
traders surge by about 8% or more. And
we're seeing lithium stocks around the
region basically rallying on the back of
this news. The CL confirming that they
have shut production in one of those
mines. This is the mine that basically
makes 30% of the world's mine
production. So certainly that's why it
has huge implications for the lithium
markets there. But yes, does is this the
next target of anti-involution is a key
story uh and key question here today.
Yields are slightly to the upside sort
of in bonds given this whole
anti-involution and the like here. We
have seen yields actually melt up in
China uh the last couple of weeks or so.
You're watching the Hong Kong open and
things are looking a little bit better,
right? We're up about 410 of 1%. HST is
catching a slight bit. We're watching
likes of Alibaba uh that's seen gains
about 1%. Mtoan's heading the opposite
direction here today. Uh but really, you
know, what we're watching very closely
is uh what the tech sector brings,
right? Given what we saw in terms of the
earnings and the side of things, what
really uh we could expect here. We're
going to get Marvin Chen from BI to talk
us through uh about the tech 8 to really
watch out for here. Uh take a look when
it comes to lithium miners, right?
Because that's the one to watch.
>> So CL confirming our Bloomberg scoop
about this. Um you know what this means
for the lithium price? I mean the likes
of city I'm reading some reports saying
that it could rally to above 80,000 yen
a ton in the next couple of days or so
that you know certainly that is why
we're seeing some of these lithium
miners are surging on the back of that.
These are some of the onshore ones that
have just opened up. So Tangi lithium a
shares are up some 6%. I think we're
seeing much more price action. The eight
shares here right now. There you go.
Eight shares of CL have just opened and
they are up some 2%. Uh we're also
watching some of these chip makers, some
China car makers as well as some keys to
focus here. Of course, Nvidia, AMD
agreeing to pay 15% of their China chip
sales revenue to the US. Uh you are
seeing some of these chip names in China
falling on the back of that. Might not
be related, but we'll see. But you know,
car makers is one thing. So C obviously
is one story. Uh but also car sales slow
as we start to see this sort of anti-
price war starting to hurt demand.
>> Yeah. The that's interesting on the
invidia sorry the tax of doing business
with China I guess is something you
could uh call that uh for some final
thoughts still with us John Woods Asia
CIO head of investment solutions at
Lombard
Ivonne just ended there by talking about
these you know efforts to end the uh
deflation or price wars or trying to get
people to incentivizing companies to
stop cutting prices. Is that a macro
story or is that a se is that a sector
story when it comes to China? uh when it
comes to China, I think both um it's a
profoundly important um growth story uh
whereby consumption clearly um is the
missing leg of the stool
>> uh when it comes to uh broad-based
growth and and that's clearly an area
that the authorities are are are keen to
target. Um the story around China right
now is very much one of um exportdriven
growth as we all know and to an extent
government uh investment and consumption
has been um somewhat uh unique in its um
lack of uh support. So yeah, I mean
everything and anything that the
authorities can do now to really
encourage um consumers to uh start
opening the purse strings and start
spending is is of critical importance.
And you know where you do have this race
to the bottom in terms of um pricing um
and industrial profits by the way uh it
it does have an impact on deflation uh
and disinflation and and that's uh
really um the the the the real concern
uh underlying this whole story. Uh China
does not want to get into a disinflation
trap uh right now. Um some would say on
the PPI it already is to an extent. It
is on the CPI. They have to get
themselves out of it um sooner rather
than later. And um I think the evolution
uh program is is part and parcel of
that.
>> What what will it take though to absorb
that excess capacity because this is
coming at a time when yes the first half
of of growth in China was quite
resilient. The second half people are
questioning whether exports can actually
hold up
>> and maybe things are might start to slow
down.
>> There's no magic bullet. There genuinely
isn't. Uh people are looking to fiscal
stimulus, monetary easing, um you know
government levers to try and promote uh
consumption. it's it's really about the
um appetite and confidence of consumers
to spend um and to try and turn around
that right now is is a very difficult
story. So if you look at um growth
forecasts for China, I mean the
direction of travel is is a modest
decline um to to a degree of stability
but uh if they to try and turn around um
depressed consumer sentiment as we found
out all around the world is a very
difficult one. H and you know the the
analogy to the or the connection at
least to the to the macroeconomy is you
know we this has come up in the last few
weeks that the economy is not doing bad
enough that it needs urgent stimulus but
it's not doing good enough that you know
the earnings story is compelling and I
wonder how you look at that from an
earnings revision perspective. Are you
worried? Is it compelling? What does
that tell you about what investors are
buying into when you look at the equity
market?
>> It's it's a what I might call a Smith
story. I mean, it's not particularly
exciting. It's not particularly
worrying. It's it's somewhat of an
average uh earnings outlook that is not
really going to, in my mind anyway, um
set investors uh uh a fire with with
optimism and enthusiasm. It's uh if if
and we'll hear more um from your
colleague uh on earnings, but we're
looking at sort of high single digits uh
for the uh major sectors. uh and in my
mind that is not sufficient really to
start reversing capital flows um away
from other emerging market competitors
uh into China. Again, this is I think a
story more about multiples and expansion
than underlying earnings. And you know,
as I say, in my mind, that makes China a
diversifier rather than an outright
overweight. And that's essentially how
we're positioning uh the market um
within our own tactical asset
allocation. you still prefer tech and
consumer names. Can you flesh out that
call a bit more?
>> Well, I I think tech will continue to
drive the China story uh for quite some
time given the underlying R&D, given the
political focus as well on on trying to
create a degree of self-sufficiency
>> um in that space. I think it's got
decades to run frankly as a secular
growth story. And again, if we can
cherrypick certain consumption and
consumer plays in China, given uh the
the focus that we've just discussed, I I
think there's upside there as well. But
it's all about cherrypicking. There are
diamonds in the rough. There are
absolute opportunities. I think the
directional play is yesterday's story
>> uh metaphorically.
>> Uh and now um it's down uh to analysts
with a bottom-up focus um looking to
identify value. And then that's where I
think the opportunities lie.
>> Okay. Now we have to identify those
analysts.
John Woods, Asia CEO, CIO, head of
investment solutions there for Asia at
Lombardo. Thank you so much for setting
us up for this week. Right. Uh speaking
of that, we'll we'll kick things off
with that last point that we were just
making there as far as earnings go. So
big week this week, Tencet, JD, Alibaba
among the many others. As you can see,
the big names reporting this week among
you have hardware makers as well. Lenovo
and some car makers like Jile are set to
report uh later in the next few days or
so. right now that turn that gets us
into this note which came out late last
week out of Bloomberg Intelligence. Uh
so they think that sentiment for China's
tech stocks might actually be turning
among mainland uh Chinese investors
before of course this earning season
really gets uh thick and heavy.
>> Yep. And since April's tariff
announcement, sectors like healthcare
and new consumption had drawn investor
attention. Yeah, that's Laboo's right.
Which could be now shifting back to
tech. our equity strategist there,
Marvin Shen, is the author of that
report and joins us now. So, yes, maybe
a switch back to big tech. Tell us a bit
more about the earnings on deck and and
you know, seeing some momentum in
Chinese tech. What is really driving
that momentum right now?
>> Yeah, so over the past three or four
months, uh, you know, China tech has
really kind of taken a backseat in the
post liberation day rally. But, uh, more
recently since middle of July, we've
seen some uh, uh, rotation back into
tech. um southbound uh flows over the
southbound stock connect uh into the big
tech names have bottomed out towards the
end of July and we think uh some of this
may be driven by expectations on
earnings or the hope that you know China
tech can lift uh sustain the market
sentiment similar to what we've seen uh
you know in the US and the mag 7 um so
you know earnings over the next uh week
or two will be uh uh key to uh uh
sustaining the momentum uh particularly
given you know Chinese stocks and
indices are at multi-year highs and
valuations are you know have normalized.
>> Yeah, that's that's that's an
interesting juxaposition because in the
US just a handful of names were enough
>> to lift the benchmark. Can I can we make
the same I wouldn't say conclusion but
can we make the same assumption that
that's going to be the dynamic when you
look at the Chinese market?
>> Yeah, I think for the second quarter
we're still it's still going to be quite
challenging uh for tech. I mean, you
know, we we we have some of the uh
rolling off of the uh stimulus from last
year and also the fading of the uh
consumption trade-in programs. Uh you
know, we also have tariffs, but that's
more of an export uh oriented story. I
think for China tech, uh the main
concern is the price wars that uh you
know, we've been discussing. Um uh so
you know on one hand we do have have
renewed AI enthusiasm but remember you
know a lot of the China tech giants are
also e-commerce and delivery platforms
that have been exposed to this
involution and you know policy makers
you know have have been talking up
supply side reform anti-involution but
uh you know these things will take time
>> yeah when can we see that impact is a
big question and how should investors
position for that theme. Yeah. So the
last time uh you know China uh embarked
on supply side reform 2015 it took about
six to 12 months to lift uh uh producer
prices out of deflation um and increased
industrial profitability. Um policy at
the time was a a key catalyst for kind
of sustained momentum within the ashare
market between 2016 and 18. So we think
uh this time around ashares uh do have
some tailwinds going into the second
half of the year uh because the ashare
indices are much more exposed to
materials industrials and some of the
sectors such as the EV supply chain uh
we know which stand to benefit from
these reforms.
>> Marvin, thank you so much. Uh Marvin
Chen there out of Blue Brook
Intelligence, a fantastic curtain rays
are going into this earnings. Big
earnings week flows are coming through.
That is a good indication of preference
from mainland investors. Coming up,
Goldman Sachs joins us for their latest
outlook on the economy there. We'll
unpack the three things on China.
Fantastic note that comes out every
Sunday out of Huan and her team there.
Everything from exports beating the
conversations around the lack of
inflation so far, plus many other things
we'll talk about with Goldman Sachs in
at those times on Euro screen. Suffice
to say, much more ahead. This is the
China show.
Here
[Music]
are some of the stories that we're
tracking for you this morning. Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent has told Nicay
News the US aims to finish trade
negotiations with remaining partners by
October. Canada, Mexico, and Switzerland
are still seeking better terms after
Trump's new tariffs took effect. Besson
also reaffirmed the importance of the
Fed's independence, but told Nicay the
next Fed chief should be
forwardthinking. The WTO is predicting
subdued global merchandise trade this
year and next, saying activity remains
clouded by President Trump's tariffs,
but it lifted its estimate for trade
growth this year to 0.9%. That's
compared with an April forecast for a
0.2% decline. That's due to a US
importers rushing to stockpile products,
parts, and raw materials before Trump's
higher levies hit.
>> Okay, let's uh turn it our attention
back to China here. Chinese authorities
have reportedly detained a senior
diplomat who heads the Communist Party's
international department. The Wall
Street Journal says Leo Jencha was taken
in for questioning last month after an
overseas trip. Let's bring in John Leo,
our senior executive editor in Beijing
for us to talk as to what we know so far
about this and and effectively. Yeah,
John, what do we know about why Leo was
detained?
>> Well, we don't know very much at this
moment, David. What we have is that Wall
Street Journal report that you mentioned
uh saying that Leo Jian was taken into
custody for questioning at the end of
July after returning from an overseas
trip. Uh we have not had any uh official
commentary from the foreign ministry,
from the international department, the
communist party uh which Mr. Leo led nor
from any other government agency or
stateowned uh news outlet. Um if you'll
recall uh the former uh foreign minister
Ching when he was removed, it was
several weeks before we actually got
word from the government about uh what
had happened. And in that interlude uh
there was just a lot of events that we
would have expected uh the foreign
minister to appear at in which he was
absent. And so I think we might be in
for a period of prolonged sort of
uncertainty uh going forward until we
find out ultimately what has happened
with Mr. Leo?
>> How how prominent of of a figure is he
this Leo John? Because you know you
mentioned he he heads the the
international department. you know, in
terms of where he stands in the ranks,
where where is he?
>> I he is, I would say, the second most
senior diplomat in the Chinese system,
uh, or at least he was, uh, before he
was taken into reportedly into custody
for questioning. Uh, as head of the
international department, he would have
been in charge of China's relationship
with other communist countries, North
Korea for example, Vietnam, and also
liazing with other political parties.
Uh, Mr. Le was actually uh, in the
United States. He visited New York and
Washington in 2024. That was seen as a
very important trip to try to stabilize
uh the relationship between these two
countries heading into the election at
the end of 2024. And a lot of people he
was widely seen as being a candidate to
become the next foreign minister for
China. And so if if something has
happened with Mr. Leo, this this would
inject a lot more uncertainty not only
into the relationship between the United
States and China, but just the general
diplomatic policymaking here in China.
John on a on a separate story that's
also garnering a lot of attention here.
China Renaissance and the founder there
Balfan uh and some reports that he has
been released and it is no longer under
investigation. What do we know about
that specifically?
>> So what we know is uh on Friday we we
found out that Mr. Balf had been
released. He'd been in uh custody for
the better part of two years. He was
taken into custody in 2023. uh he
resigned as chief executive and chairman
of China Renaissance, the the firm he
founded in early 2024. Um we still do
not have uh details about under uh what
circumstances he was taken into custody.
Uh what investigation was being
conducted, why he was part of that
investigation, we do not know. All we
have so far is a comment from China
Renaissance saying that that he is no
longer uh part of the day-to-day
management of the firm and so they are
not going to comment on his personal
affairs. His wife, Mr. Balfine's wife,
is currently the chairwoman of China
Renaissance and over the last two years
while he's been in custody that that
firm has suffered greatly. It's lost a
lot of talent. It's seen uh losses, its
revenue go down and you've you've seen
the stock jump uh on Friday and I think
it's up again today. I think there's an
expectation that maybe with this
overhang removed, there's a opportunity
for this company to get back to doing
business.
>> Yeah, maybe that's why the stock has
been up and continues to be the here
this morning. John, thank you. Our
senior executive editor, John Leo,
joining us out of Beijing. We got plenty
more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Some big corporate stories we're
tracking for you today. Palanteer
Technologies is now the most expensive
stock in the S&P 500, forcing bullish
investors to bank on increasingly robust
future growth to justify its price. The
stock has soared, get this, 2500%
since 2021 and closed at a fresh high on
Friday. The stock now trades at 245
times forward earnings. Palanteer has
been boosted by growing AI use, its
business ties to the US government, and
stellar earnings. The Wall Street
Journal says Intel CEO Lip Boutan is set
to visit the White House on Monday after
President Trump called for his removal
over ties to Chinese businesses. The
report site sources saying Tan hopes to
show his commitment to the US and
propose ways the government and intel
could work together. Trump posted on
social media last week that Tan should
resign immediately over conflicts of
interest. BHP group says it will lead a
consortium of steel makers and
industrial giants investigating carbon
capture opportunities across Asia. The
world's biggest miners says its study
partners will include Aselar Metal,
Nepon Steel India, GSW Steel, Hyundai,
Chevron, and Mitsui. They want to
identify potential large-scale projects
to store the emissions used to turn iron
into steel.
>> Okay. Yeah, that's a interesting
interesting story. Okay. Um, couple of
things as we uh make our way into the
Monday. So, one is, you know, we talked
about this with John Woods earlier on,
right? and also Marvin Chen out of you
in our Bloomberg intelligence team. You
know the market has not rallied straight
up greater China but it's rallied enough
that you know the theme and the trend
has been clear right lower higher and
higher lows rather higher and higher
lows weekly chart MSA China we showed
you this a couple of weeks back we are
still at about that key level and we're
getting the big earnings coming through
this week and of course key constituents
of course of MSA China and whether or
not that will be enough to result in a
melt up uh in multiples let's see what
happens with that but yes something to
watch and a key level to watch let's
call it 7924
uh on the benchmark itself and we're
slightly above that level as we speak
7956 the other key theme is we're coming
out of the weekend we had industrial uh
China PPI coming out and that goes into
the anti-involution conversation and
whether or not that does a is that is
able to lift profits on the industrial
side of things again historic very brief
history lesson we're on fave okay you
know what we will leave that here for
now I think we've gone on the charts,
but why not? If we had to pick an
alternative, why not pick your fave,
right? Anyway, we'll we'll look at that
a bit later on, but yeah.
>> Oh, coming.
>> Um, lithium stocks are fairly lit. Thank
you so much. We'll do this later. Come
on. We gave it away already. We'll do
this later, Ivon.
>> You know, technical stuff.
>> Yes,
>> we're live TV, right?
>> Yeah. Manual error rather, but yes.
>> Okay. Uh, lithium sucks though. Let's
get that one ready to go. Um, that
certainly continues to be surging here
this morning. Uh after we heard CL
pausing output at that mine, we got
Mattie Jiao uh from Bank of America
going to be talking a little bit more
about this. They sort of were
anticipating this, right? There's so
there was so much interest in this
leading up to this announcement that
they were actually flying drones around
just to see if they were trying to gauge
what was going on
>> with the permit.
>> Yeah. Before the permit actually
expired. So the fact that now it's been
confirmed, you know, what does that lead
to lithium price if you're talking about
now potentially here the cut of
production, we're also entering into the
EV peak season. So Mattie Jouo from Bank
of America is going to talk about that.
She thinks maybe 80,000 rem in the near
term for lithium prices could be in the
horizon on the horizon there. CATLH
shares are up, but then you take a look
at Tanti Lithium, it's up double digits
here this morning. CGBs, you've been
talking about that story, right?
>> Yeah. So, we're I think we're we're
noticing a pick up in the yields right
now. Something that is not as
pronounced. Now, suffice to say, I guess
more context, right? 1.1 basis points.
It's not really a big one. But all that
said, we we're coming off a low 160s.
And this is something we don't normally
see for this time of the day. Might this
be down to lithium? Might this be down
to inflation conversations? But yes, we
are seeing a bit of a pickup and I guess
slight steepening in the curve with a
30-year now closing in on the 2% handle.
There's that. Then of course there's the
oil story which really is the at the
very center of all the the geopolitical
themes we're tracking this morning
>> right because we talk about or extending
the losses after the biggest weekly
decline since end of June for for oil
prices right though this you know a lot
of it had to do with OPEC plus boosting
production but now when you add this
whole kind of Alaska Trump Putin sort of
talk and the prospect of maybe an end of
the Ukraine war and maybe even more
supply into this market. Where does that
leave oil prices there? But yes, we got
much more coming up. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China Show. Hope you
had a great weekend here. Second hour is
looking like this. is a bit gloomy here
in Hong Kong and you're seeing when it
comes to the hang though still things
are looking I mean pretty slow it's
still yeah
>> a bit of the summer sort of uh doldrums
here today but eight shares are slightly
a little bit doing worse we're down
about a fifth of 1% but it's a pivotal
week as we talk about right
>> yeah because you're back and
>> well yeah I was gone for a whole week
>> and you mentioned that this is this is
this is actually quite uh gloomy
>> was it really bad
>> I was about to say you just escaping us
for a few days and then you calling is
gloomy. This is glorious. This is a nine
out of 10.
>> Four black rains in a in a in a few how
many days? I I was reading some media.
>> I know. I forgot how the sun looked
like. Let's put it that way after the
success.
>> Well, I'm glad that you guys are getting
some vitamin D in or some. Yeah. Um but
you take a look at these markets. We
talk about how in, you know, it's
interesting week, right? We talk about
earnings. You have the likes of the big
tech in China that reporting later on
today. You also have the data dump at
the end of the week as well. So, there's
a lot really kind of event risk there.
uh and the inflation numbers really was
a telling sign of just you know things
are not really looking that great in
terms of the whole inflation side of
things despite all this talk about
anti-involution right
>> yeah it circles this conversation
precisely back there right so when you
look at PPI for example again uh dropped
more than forecast and CPI was okay but
when you look at say food uh alcohol and
tobacco which is one category I'm not
nitpicking of course those three
>> not your dietary no that's not like my
nutrition needs for the Hey
um that actually fell much more than
expected. Well, I say much more than
expected. It was a very it was a
standout to the downside that that
product category. So it really
underscores to the point you were just
making here of this this incentives to
uh to to incentivize companies not to
cut prices even further.
>> Yes. And so there's certainly that and
then on top of that, keep in mind it's
August 12th tomorrow, right? That's when
you know we start the countdown to of
course when this trade truce between the
US and China expires. It seems like the
narrative in this market is that, you
know, people are expecting it to roll
over and that we're going to get maybe
another more can kicking for another 90
days. Um, but we haven't heard
otherwise. But then again, you're seeing
a lot of evidence of the US side of
things that they're really trying to
actually smooth out a potential trade
deal with China or a meeting between
Trump and she
>> uh this Nvidia line recently is pretty
interesting as well. How they have to
pay some of a portion of their revenue
to the US government,
>> 15% them and AMD. uh which is which just
goes into some of the gives that the US
then went in to be able to get China
back to the table at least uh paved the
way for a deal which I think Scott
Bessant now says is looking perhaps
likely for the end of October I believe
of course in time again for any
potential meeting at APEC which I
believe is about in in November from now
okay that that's one uh key theme right
now that when you look at these markets
one sort of sector stands out uh
particularly across the equity complex
is really lithium and lithium related
stocks whether that's some of these big
names in Australia and some the names
that have come online here uh in Hong
Kong any China. So you have CL of course
up 2% but it's really the peers on your
screens up 20% Teni and Gangong are up
in the order of magnitudes of of this
sort. Um the big story was CL suspending
activity at a major mine no license
there spurring hopes of wider output
curves. Let's bring in Mattie Jiao,
co-head of China Equity Research and
Head of Apac Basic Materials Oil and Gas
Research at BFA Global Research. So, two
weeks ago you were here on set and you
told us specifically August 9, that's
the date to watch. You called it what do
we do now?
>> Yeah. So, uh actually over uh over the
weekend you said that the CL's license
would not renewed. Um and we hear that
probably at least for the next 3 months
um that they will have to suspend this
um and CL actually is about uh this mine
is about 6% of global lithium supply. So
it's very meaningful for that and and uh
because currently that the overall over
supply of the market year today is only
2%. So taking away 6% actually means
that we are going into a deficit market
in the next few months before CL come
back uh or if they can come back. Um
also we are heading into a peak season
for EV. Normally in the next three
months is we should see lithium demand
to go up by 5% per month at least for
the next three monthses. So basically
running down the inventory for the next
three months is during CL suspension. Um
I think um it will means that the
lithium prices in the near term has very
big upsides. We actually see future
market limit up already this morning. Um
and uh also if you look at lithium
prices it came down all the way from
600,000 to now 70 to 80,000 right? So a
10% up doesn't mean that it's already
capturing all the upsides from a surplus
market to now a deficit market. uh not
to say that apart from CL another seven
mines in Tangi which is another five to
six% of the supply globally are at risk
because they're having a similar issue
versus CL's mine as a cowing mine so as
a start they are not a lithium mine on
the license so currently under this
anti-involution
that government have been pushing uh
Jangi government issue an a regulation
basically on the 14th of July asking all
these seven mines to submit document by
the end of September. So the next day to
I apart from whether CL can resume is
30th of September. If all these seven
mines cannot submit it enough document
to um to satisfy the government to say
that they meet the criteria of lithium
mine instead of cowing mining then you
should be expecting another 5% cut on
the supply in the long run.
>> You mentioned are you are you seeing
this case as the next target of
anti-involution? Is this their way of
curbing over capacity? Now
>> I think this is one of the sectors.
Well, obviously lithium is not the key
sector. It's a relatively smaller sector
compared to cement, steel, etc. But what
I'm saying is under this anti-involution
as a whole. I don't think local
government is there just to give you a
license without uh enough you know
meeting enough uh you know regulations
and stuff like that. So they will be
probably tighter in terms of
scrutinizing all these uh criteria um as
well. That's why uh as long as in these
sectors in certain sector if you are not
meeting the legal criteria I think there
is highly likelihood of closing.
>> Yeah. They'll choose to look at it more
closely. Let's put it that way. So
what's the potential? You said
substantial upside in lithium short
term. We're now at 10% of the peak. What
is what is substantial upside? Uh well I
think uh for lithium prices in the short
term if it rebound from 70,000 to
100,000 I wouldn't be surprised or even
even higher than that if the other seven
mines are closing.
>> I think it's would be even higher than
that. Um as well um like I said lithium
price come down all the way from 600,000
to now. You're only 12% of the peak
right? So if it's up you know to 100
120,000 in the near term I wouldn't be
surprised. What does it mean for battery
prices and further upstream? If battery
prices are going to adjust, what does it
mean for margins of the automakers? Will
they then need to adjust? Like is this
is controlling the upstream in some ways
influencing the the final product price?
>> Yeah, sure. Um if this lithium prices
rebound is more sustained than like a
short two or three months, we should see
battery prices to follow. um as well. Of
course, uh depending on the uh magnitude
of the lithium price is going up. If
it's only up from 70,000 say to 80,000
then battery price not necessarily need
to go up that much. Right? But uh if you
look at um you know in the past when
lithium was above 300,000 battery prices
was also adjusted every time when
lithium prices go up um as well. Um also
it will probably affect in the short
term some of the battery maker uh margin
as well. Um again if you look at CL when
the prices were 300,000 when they go up
very fast in one quarter their margin
actually dropped to I think low to mid
compared to normal 20 to 25%. Because
you you need time to to catch up for the
short term um as well. Uh but then if
going into the auto size it also
probably means some margin pressure for
the auto depending on whether the auto
can pass on the prices as well.
>> Maddie thank you so much for coming in.
We had to call her like last hour to
come in and she
>> What are you doing this morning?
>> Yeah, like now.
>> Thank you.
>> Um, thank you Mie there going up China
equity research ahead of Apac basic
materials oil and gas research at BA
Global Research. We're going to talk
more about that. Uh, more about
anti-involution as well. Coming up next,
Goldman Sachs joining us to discuss the
inflation outlook in China amid of
course is crackdown excessive price
discounting. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, we're talking all things
lithium and now we got to talk about
this whole bigger theme of what this all
means, right? This drive from Beijing
against excessive competition may be key
in easing deflationary pressures. Our
China correspondent Mman Low has more on
the so-called anti-involution campaign
and what it's designed to achieve.
It's vouchers galore on China's food
delivery platforms. Intense promotions
leaving customers spoiled for choice.
Milk tea going practically free.
>> I drank four to five cups of milk tea in
a day. The vouchers for firsttime buyers
are too good. Is a waste not to use
them. But I overused them and drank
until I ended up in the hospital.
>> The race to the bottom has become a
national obsession and a policy problem.
In July, China's pilot bureau vowed to
curb what it calls irrational price
competition. The directive coming right
from the very top. President Xi himself
calling for an end to involution or nan
in Chinese, literally meaning rolling
inwards, a phenomenon where vicious
competition leads to diminishing
returns. It was used back in 2020 to
describe mindless workplace competition.
Now it's permeating sectors from
electric vehicles to e-commerce. In
June, officials summoned the heads of
BYD and other major EV makers, warning
them to self-regulate after BYD launched
a new price war with discounts as steep
as 34%. In July, food delivery giants
were summoned after JD.com started a
price war with its entry into a space
once dominated by Mtoan and AMA. The
anti-involution campaign comes as
cutthroat competition has squeezed
industrial profits. Factory deflation
has lasted 34 months while the consumer
price index hovers around zero.
The need to reflate the economy and
expand domestic consumption increasingly
urgent under the threat of more tariffs.
But China has done this before. A decade
ago, capacity cuts in steel and coal
sectors helped end a 54-month stretch of
factory deflation. But this time, the
job is much harder. The most severe
prize wars are dominated by private
firms.
>> Managing private companies to stop them
from overcompeting against each other is
a much more tough job and much different
task compared to control ses to cut
capacity.
>> Anti-involution will not work in the
next probably 4 to 8 months. But over
time the capital market will pick up the
positive sentiment and in a year or two
the real economy will will respond. So
I'm fairly positive over the impact of
this in the long run.
>> As China charts its priorities for the
next 5 years in the upcoming October
pleum, she faces a challenge. How to
CEOs to cut production, consumers
to accept higher prices, and local
officials not to compete for new
investments crowding into the same
sectors. Analysts say any supply side
reforms will likely be gradual to avoid
job losses and painful repercussions for
the economy. Lin Milo Bloomberg News
Hong Kong.
>> It is and I think the the data points on
the weekend is a reminder really of the
need for not just supply but also demand
side. In fact, Goldman Sachs put up a
report right after the inflation numbers
came out and while it's part of the PPI
deflation may be pointed to transitory
factors, you have weather conditions,
what have you. We believe, change the
page please, that without broad-based
demand stimulus, the current
anti-involution policies are likely to
deliver a rapid PPI reflation in China.
Joining us now is the author, one of the
authors of that report, Way Shan, chief
China economist at Goldman Sachs. Nice
to see you.
>> Nice to be here.
>> What's the initial prognosis looking at
the inflation numbers? Why is there a
lack of it?
>> Uh, it's too soon to tell. uh the
anti-involution stepping up that
narrative and that campaign really
happened in July and you start to see
futures prices going up but if you look
at the spot prices of coal steel they
didn't go up as much as the futures
prices so this PBI is measuring spot
prices so in a way people are
anticipating some impact but July just
too soon to tell
>> how do you see this all playing out
we're starting to see a little bit of
maybe curbing outputs in in certain you
know se subsectors the commodity side of
But in terms of what it means for
overall the jobs sort of picture and
even in terms of consolidation right I
mean how is it going to hurt growth in
some ways in the short term?
>> Yeah. Uh put it very simply this is a
bit of a contractionary policy from
output point of view. Whether you cut
capacity whether you cut production from
GDP point of view that's a negative. We
can argue how negative that is is a
marginal you know directionally we think
is negative. Now the complexity is how
you deal with it. You mentioned labor
market. That's certainly one potential
constraint. And the f what about
financial market? We're still dealing
with bat loans coming out of a housing
downturn. So if you have a manufacturing
loans being written off, can the
financial system shoulder them all at
once? That's another constraint. And
then I was listening to the video clip,
right? We're talking about food
delivery. We're talking about EV, solar
panel, talking about coal, steel,
cement. So it's a varieties of
industries. It's very hard to come up
with one solution. The food delivery
solution probably doesn't apply to the
steel and coal. So altogether I think
that's why you know before the program I
was saying this is uncharted territory.
I don't know how exactly this is going
to play out but we do think that we need
to take this seriously but this is
coming from the very top. We also need
to acknowledge the difficulties in
tackling this problem
>> at the moment. So you have you have CPI
and PPI two data sets. What do you think
is slightly more important than the
other right now based on the current
market narrative?
>> Yeah, for investors I think people are
watching PPI um because that tend to be
where um you think about China's over
capacity in many industries. You think
about uh um sort of the deflationary
impulse which one is driving it more. I
think a PPI is something you need to
watch out uh more closely. CPI is
important for consumers but it has
administrative price controls whether
it's you know medical care or education
there are government control prices in
it so for a more uh timely measure of a
turning point PPI is more important to
watch
>> in terms of the data moving forward what
should I be more concerned about as a
bigger risk the economy export slowdown
or persistent deflation
>> I think it's a persistent uh pressure on
prices on labor market on property
market the domestic complex. How do we
turn that from uh so the current very
sluggish situation to a more virtual
cycle? Uh that's the key. Uh
unfortunately the stronger the exports
are uh the less urgency government may
feel to stimulate the domestic uh
economy. So we might stuck in this very
bifurcated economy for a while.
>> The I think the phrase you guys used was
reactive I believe in terms of the
policy. Do you think that will remain
the case? policy will be reactive and
measured.
>> I think from a cyclical policym
macroeconomy, it will be reactive.
Right? If we had the US China tariff
escalation in April, we had uh tripart
an interest rate cut in May. So that
kind of a reactive uh dynamic uh we
think is likely to continue. But we are
seeing more um sort of proactive uh
policies on the longer term horizon. for
example, uh the child care subsidy, uh
thinking about subsidizing uh disabled
elderly care. We're talking about free
preschool. Those kind of planning, I
think this is in the context of the 15th
5-year plan. The government is inching
in that direction as well.
>> Okay. So maybe a little bit on that
front. Um you mentioned about the export
numbers.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there going to be a lot of payback?
What's the aftershock look like after
the sort of front loing which really has
kept the data pretty strong for the
first half? Right. Frontloading is
something we have a lot of discussion
with the uh clients. Um but I think
there is a caveat here. If you look at
the Chinese exports to the US, not a
whole lot of frontloading. You look at
last Q4 and this Q1 maybe a tiny bit.
But if you look at European exports to
the US, there's a huge jump. So what we
worry about the payback not is not
necessarily direct payback rather it's
indirect payback that other countries
were trying to get ahead of tariffs to
the extent that Chinese inputs uh were
used in making those products from
Europe to US we could see some indirect
uh payback but I think it is uh
important to recognize just how
competitive the fact we're h having
conversation about anti-involution
Chinese products is so competitive on
the global stage and that is just very
difficult just putting yourself in the
shoes of a purchase manager right when
you see Chinese products versus other
products similar quality 30% discount
which one are you going to buy this is a
key reason why exports could continue
surprise to the outside
>> will it take up a bigger portion of
growth this year GDP exports to GDP
contribution to GDP
>> yeah it we have been tracking that and
uh uh export contribution to GDP last
year was uh uh more than half of the 5%
growth and We're on track for a similar
slightly lower but similar significant
contribution to GDP growth this year as
well.
>> You mentioned frontloading to Europe.
I'm just wondering has there been a lot
in the EM side too? Is it enough to
absorb maybe the the the slowdown in
exports to the US from China?
>> Um I think of it as a a trade. You think
of as a water, right? It's going to flow
somewhere. So there are two variables
you want to watch. One is demand. If
there's a global demand whether it's a
US whether it's a whether it's Europe if
there's a demand there will be supply
and two is how does Chinese product
compare with the global competitors if
Chinese products continue to be 30 40%
cheaper then it will take a bigger
market share so only watch those two
variables and those as long as you're
not forecasting global recession I think
the Chinese exports are supported
>> okay what's the outlook I think just to
ask you about activity numbers are out
end of this week high frequency data
What are you seeing as far as
consumption trends that you know what's
July going to look like effectively?
>> Yeah, high frequency data uh
domestically uh are not back
encouraging. Uh property sales down in
July and uh you talk to restaurants and
the service industry. I mean there are
bright spots such as tourism. You go to
these tour tourism uh sites uh there the
traffic is uh quite uh impressive but if
you look at the restaurant services uh
is still quite depressed. So we think
industrial production is likely to beat
uh because of exports. Uh retail sales
are going to be better than expected
because of distortions coming out of
that 618 uh online uh sales festival.
But we think uh FAI is likely to be a
miss. Um the weather wasn't helpful. Uh
government is not really in a rush to do
more infrastructure projects. Um so it's
going to be a mixed bag.
>> Okay. the I'm I'm trying to look so the
longer term conversations around
unlocking structural impediments to
growth let's call it that way like child
care for example what how much fiscal
space do you think China has to put in
place those longer term fixes
>> I think in the next two three years um
there there should be enough of a fiscal
space uh Chinese debt is mostly
domestically owned um you know central
government balance sheet relatively
clean uh and when you're talking about
social safety net is better to be
administered and supported at the
national level rather than doing at the
local level. So there I think this is
the right thing for the government to do
and there's more space for government to
do uh such policies. Longer term let's
say five years down the road if we have
augmented the fiscal deficit double
digit nominal GDP growing four or 5%.
Yeah,
>> you can see that at some point we need
some type of resolution whether it's you
know fiscal consolidation. Uh so much
longer term I think is sustainability is
an issue but in the next couple years
that we are thinking about there's
definitely room to do more.
>> I've got to ask about tariffs are do you
feel like we're getting more clarity and
what the trade policy looks like in the
US and do you expect this trade truth
with China to roll roll over? Yeah, I
think with other countries we had deal
US deal with the EU with Japan with
Korea with a a set of trading partners
there. There's a removal of uncertainty.
We know it's a 15. It's not going to be
2025. Uh with China, I think uh the
status of quo is likely to uh remain.
The reason is that uh you know Chinese
rare earth is a real deal and this is
something probably going to prevent uh
trade tensions from escalating. So we're
expecting around 30% additional tariff
uh in the second Trump administration to
stay uh for the rest of the year. Quan,
thank you so much for kicking off the
week with us. Quan there, chief ch
economist at Goldman Sachs. We got
plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, where take a look at when it
comes to China Renaissance. Okay, those
shares have actually reversed here after
uh sources are telling us that the
banker Balfan uh is no longer under
investigation and has left detention.
The shares today are down to 8%. They
did surge on Friday though. Uh we're
watching the chip space here of course
on the back of this Nvidia and AMD to
pay us for their China sales. So it is
impacting negatively some of these
Chinese related chip makers here today,
Dave.
>> Yeah, and we're looking at this trading
debut today. flu shot maker ABNB
biotech as much as 170%
at one point again it's the latest in a
series of more coming to this market
plhead this is Bloomberg
[Music]
All right you're watching the China
show. Happy Monday by the way if you're
just joining us. Okay, so the story
across regional markets is well number
one, Japan is closed for mountain day.
So you don't have uh volumes from that
side of the Asia Pacific. All things
equal, we're down about we're up about
one 10 to 1%. Uh it's a big earnings
week. In terms of sector movers, we're
mostly to the upside. It does help that
some of those sectors are heavily
weighted. S&P futures are brushing off,
of course, the news coming out of Nvidia
and AMD that they have to pay this tax
15%. Uh in order, let's put it to access
the Chinese market. AI is a big part of
the conversation this week. You have big
tech earnings, uh, a lot of the big
movers that we've seen so far in the US.
In fact, we have a fantastic piece. I
think it's in the Bloomberg as well on
everyone talks about the NVIDIA of the
world, but when you talk about powering
the data centers and the AI, right,
there are lots of stocks that are
connected to that are actually seeing
some upside. I guess we can get to all
of those themes in a moment there. Apart
from that, dollar is slightly to the
upside. NASDAQ futures also up a fifth
of 1%. Ivon,
>> yeah, I think the ASX is at a record
too, right? thanks to that sort of
lithium
>> sort of uh bid here we're seeing right
when it comes to lithium stocks that's
really lifting a lot of these names here
this morning but it really kind of you
know we got to talk about AI right as
you talk about
>> when you talk about both China and the
US have unveiled their strategies when
it comes to AI the big question is
whether it has the sort of power supply
to kind of serve and cater to this AI
development energy consumption has
become one of the main f focuses as they
v for supremacy in this new technology
now the IEA has crushed the numbers And
they're basically saying the US and
China have the fastest growing demand
for electricity consumption for data
centers and really accounting for nearly
80% of global expansion this decade. So
it brings a lot of questions about the
role Dave of really green finance and of
course we talk about green finance
there's a lot of questions about what
constitutes that as well right because
we got to talk about anti-involution
that theme kind of connects to all this
as well. this mega dam project as well
all kind of goes into that.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it does. In fact, when you
look at I think when you look at the
projections, right, you extrapolate even
further. Our team at uh NEF of course
have projected the total US data center
power to more than double, right? The
market's running with that. What's the
next breakout stock apart from Nvidia,
right? You answered the question, you
probably get that as well. So, we're
looking at 8.6% of all US electricity
demand. Now, that takes us back to side
of the world, right? In China. What does
that mean? big advantage when it comes
to energy. In 2024, China added get this
357 gawatts of uh new renewable capacity
and also began a construction to Ivon's
point of course of all these mega
projects almost 100 gawatts of new coal
plants. Now Beijing has also approved
get this 10 nuclear uh reactors putting
it on path to overtake the US uh Ivon as
the world's top nuclear energy producer.
So certainly there's a lot of questions
about you know the significance of all
this as well. There's been a lot of news
about this um and and really are Chinese
firms really paying attention and and
really adopting AI and paying attention
to the whole ESG factor in all this
particularly when it comes to investment
and the responsibilities. That's
certainly a key theme. Let's bring in
Nea Chiki Obi Apac head of ESG radius
and research at sustainable uh fitch. Uh
here uh na it's really great to have
you. So I I you know let's talk a little
bit more about what's really what we
know so far this sort of revised green
finance catalog that China unveiled uh
last month you know what do you think is
the key takeaways from that and do you
expect it to actually boost green
finance in the mainland?
>> Sure. Good morning. Uh so the revision
of the Chinese green bomb catalog is a
very important piece of work. Um you've
probably heard the term taxonomy which
is what is used in in the EU also
Singapore. Hong Kong has a taxonomy.
This is the equivalent for mainland
China. What they are trying to do is to
clearly define the standards and
criteria for what is considered to be a
green investment. And so tightening and
increasing the um clarity on that is
going to be very important for
understanding how to direct capital
towards the areas that Beijing thinks
are most important for the development
of the green economy.
>> Right. And what about the financing
part? How does that evolve alongside now
knowing what green financing actually uh
is is is made up of, for example?
>> Sure. So at sustainable fitch, we work
with issuers who want to issue green or
sustainable label debt. And so it's
important for them to have a standard
against which they're measuring. So when
they're trying to say um a large
conglomerate trying to identify where
are areas in my business where I need to
allocate capex towards reducing my
carbon footprint, increasing my energy
efficiency, they can refer to the China
green bond catalog to make sure that
what their projects are doing is in line
with China's 2030 peak emissions and60
net zero emissions targets. We then look
at the fact that the issuer has aligned
themselves to um a reputable standard
like the China green bond catalog or a
taxonomy in order to evaluate whether or
not we believe that bond is actually
going to contribute to an environmental
benefit and to give transparency to
investors.
>> How does this new catalog stack up to
what you see in the EU for example? I
mean does it actually eliminate some of
the loopholes or even greenwashing that
we might see?
>> Um it definitely introduces more
clarity. The EU taxonomy is a lot more
focused on very specific technical
standards. So they're extremely clear on
the exact amount of emissions generated
per kilowatt hour for power production.
Whereas the Chinese green bond catalog
even in its updated version is not as
strict on criteria. They're more looking
at the specific types of technology that
are being invested in and saying that
this type of technology we would
consider green. Um and there is a little
bit more flexibility in terms of the
actual emissions footprint. However, I
think in the context of China where the
government is able to have a significant
influence on things like energy
efficiency and industry, they feel that
they can um impact those things through
other policy means whereas the green
bond catalog is more for helping guide
issuers in order to select the
activities that would be appropriate for
them. I guess to take a step back is it
clear to you guys for one what what
China's energy needs will be say 10
years down the road and what part of
that is actually going to be green
financed by green financing for example
>> sure so if we think about China's energy
needs overall obviously you've mentioned
the
>> the mix looks like yes
>> yes you've mentioned the IEA forecast if
we're talking specifically about um AI
and data centers which you know is a
main topic um so at the moment the vast
majority of energy for AI and data
centers is coming from fossil fuels in
China. However, they're expecting by
2050 2060 for that to shift with more
than 60% coming from renewables and then
nuclear. And nuclear is not green
energy, but nuclear is a low emissions
form of energy that we would kind of
include in in the basket next to
renewables. So, China is really looking
for a big shift from majority coal and
and gas to majority renewables and um
nuclear energy. Um but this is something
very similar that we see around the
world where there's a strong push for
data centers and the AI sector to really
go heavily into renewables and nuclear
and shift away from
>> mentioned more than 60% has to be from
green sources is it how doable is that
what would it take to actually play out
the way that
>> so actually even beyond that um so the
China NDRC has actually specified that
data centers that are in what they call
tech nodes so the key areas of compute
power in the country that those should
be 80% renewable um So that's even a
higher standard. Um if we take a
comparison, Australia just launched its
first uh green taxonomy. They are saying
that for a data center in Australia to
be considered green would be 100%
renewable energy. So we really see these
standards are being pushed very very
high for these companies. Um is it
possible? Well, part of it is where
you're located, where you're operating.
And so for a country like China, it's
very important for them to make sure
that there is renewable energy
generation capacity in proximity to
where the compute power is going to be.
Um and so that's something that they can
work on on sort of a macro scale. Um the
second thing is from the perspective of
a data center. Data center at this point
is essentially basic infrastructure.
When a data center is down and we can't
access our work computers and the
airport can't access its schedule and
hospitals can't function, we need these
on. So having sources of renewable
energy are are sort of a stability play.
You can have rooftop solar on top of
your data center. You can have a battery
storage system so that if there's
something going on in the grid, the data
center is continuing to operate and we
all still have all of the internet needs
that we require essentially for our
economy.
>> How much I think how much do we
understand about the data center energy
needs at this point in time because
that's almost incremental energy needs
that we didn't understand 10 years back
and now we have this forecast of
whatever the amount is. How much can I
trust that number?
>> That's a good question. So with
electricity needs in general, something
we have to think about with China and
also a lot of um developing and
developed economies is demographic
change. So we're starting to see that
actually with uh slowing birth rates and
an aging population, consumption of
electricity is going down. So that's
something that I think is going to start
being incorporated into the forecast,
but we maybe haven't seen so far,
particularly for China, where the the
the drop in birth rate is is really
precipitous. Um if we look at data
center electricity demand out of overall
electricity demand if you look at the
IIA forecast it's around 1 and a.5% in
China now electricity for data centers
>> okay
>> that is going to grow to around 3% by
2030 so it's actually still in terms of
aggregate electricity demand relatively
small but again the issue about
competition comes from the location of
some of these so if you look at um you
know large metropolitan areas around
Beijing for example where the majority
of population center is in China that
electricity is actually competing
against industry household consumption
in a way that if you had a data center
in a less populous place it would not be
competing. So it's hard if you look at
the national figure it's not exactly
telling you the full story because those
data centers are where the people live
where the factories are and where the
businesses are. So it is a little bit
more challenging. I was want to get your
take on this mega dam that everyone's
talking about as you know how do you
think that's going to play into the
whole development of green finance
>> and given just the size and sheer scale
of it
>> and the ecological potential damage it
could have can it qualify as green
finance
>> so for hydro power hydro power has and
it still is the largest source of
renewable energy in China that it has
been traditionally three gorgeous dam is
the largest hydropower dam in the world
this new dam that's being built in Tibet
will be larger than the three gorgeous
so that will become the world's largest.
Um when we look at um large scale hydro,
when we evaluate um the greenness of an
activity, we do look to see that there
has been a clear environmental impact
assessment and that the developer has
understood what potential impacts could
be had on um you know, water
availability, wildlife, um ecological
changes and things like that. When
you're talking about a project at that
large of a scale, there will be
environmental impacts.
>> Whether or not they can be managed,
mitigated, whether people who are
affected by those can be compensated,
that is, you know, in the realm of of
policy makers, but it would be very
difficult to imagine that there's no
environmental impact. Is the benefit
worth it is another question. So why the
the dam is located there? Tibet has
compared to other parts of China very
very um ample water resources. So not
only for generation of electricity, you
can also potentially think about data
centers as well because data centers are
heavy users of water. So there may be
more of a a an economic development play
where they're looking at this dam as
being the center of the expansion of
other types of industries which could
include data centers and technology as
well. And then there would also need to
be significant investment to get that
electricity transmitted from the
relatively remote region to the places
where it's actually being consumed.
>> Right. I think you know the the point
you made earlier on was you know the
strategy of locating the renewable
capacity next to the data center. I mean
just put the data center up beside the
dam and I think maybe that that actually
uh might might solve part of the
conversation the at a you know at a
project of that scale. Is that even part
of private sector green financing
conversations? Because that seems to be
more a public uh exercise.
>> Yeah. So if we look in the green
>> Yeah. If we look in the green bond
market, I would say the majority of
financing looking from uh private debt
investors is actually related to smaller
types of projects, wind, solar, but
there are not that many large scale
hydro projects being developed. So it's
hard to say necessarily is that
something private capital wouldn't be
involved in. In general, you know, the
state is a is a very important
stakeholder and investor in these types
of projects in China. So, we would
expect something like this to be
primarily stateled. Having said that,
there are certainly asset managers and
banks that do have more um restrictions
or what they may call enhanced due
diligence for hydro power projects
because of the concerns about um not
only potential environmental impacts,
but also social impacts. you know,
whether or not communities have been
consulted before they're relocated or um
some significant changes made to their
local environment. So, it is a a part of
renewable energy where I would say
investors have a little bit more
questions and there's more scrutiny to
to make sure that there's no other
unintended consequences.
>> The final question, the you know, we we
talk about the over capacity in some of
these solar is a good example, right?
And as China tries to work its you know
work that over capacity out of the
system is that affecting demand for
green financing for example just because
you know the capacity is already there
of these small projects and I wonder
whether the macro meets the micro as far
as you're concerned.
>> So uh China tends to do this sort of um
you know provincial competition
>> clarify for us. Yeah.
>> Yes. So each province will still be
making their own renewable energy
investments without necessarily
consideration for the national
overcapacity issue because they have
their own regional targets for
increasing renewable energy. Um what we
are seeing though what we've observed
with some of the companies that we've
worked with is that that competition is
having a huge effect on price. Right? So
um the pricing of solar is falling so
rapidly. So if you're actually looking
at the profitability and revenue streams
from some of these companies that are
heavily involved in parts of the solar
chain, they're actually, you know,
financially it's getting a little bit
challenging for them because the prices
are falling so rapidly. The only way for
them to make up for that is to, you
know, massive scale in a a geopolitical
situation where we have tariffs, we have
more trade restrictions, you know, that
could potentially throw up some
challenges. But in terms of meeting the
expectations for you know 2030 peak
emissions60 net zero all of this is very
beneficial for the Chinese government to
meet those targets but for individual
companies that's a different story when
it comes to profitability and
competition
>> the limits of financial engineering at
some point run up into you thank you so
much for the time I think we covered
everything there Obi there Apac heads ES
ratings and research at sustainable
pitch okay uh let's talk about this
breaking news story the liquidation
hearing from China South city uh um
breaking news line that came out in
fact. So the company has been ordered to
liquidate by a Hong Kong court yet is I
guess revisiting a theme that has been
absent of late but yeah this is now the
latest here and not sure if you're
seeing anything else here.
>> This is the this is after they failed to
win enough support from creditors for
this restructuring proposal. So uh the
judge Linda Chan basically said uh time
to liquidate then and this really does
mark the biggest Chinese builder by
assets to be wound up since China
Everrand if you're looking for
significance there right so the total
liability is about 60.9 billion Hong
Kong dollars uh that's as of last year
end of last year that makes it now
second to what uh we saw when it comes
to China Everrand so certainly that's
the latest there this liquidation order
coming through from South City we got
plenty more ahead this is Bloomberg
[Music]
Okay, we're looking at chip stocks and
declines and we can tie the story now
with the price action in the markets to
the Nvidia AMD story agreeing to pay
this fee fine levy price of doing
business 15% of China chip sales to the
US uh this really as part of a deal to
be able to do business and export
specific types of products of course to
to China. Just bring in Mid Lo, our
China correspondent to help us
understand what we know so far about
this.
>> Yes. So what we know from the FT is that
Jensen Hang met with President Trump
again and finally that export license
for the H20 chips had been granted after
you know it's been stalled for a few
weeks uh since the US administration had
said they were reversing the decision to
ban the sale of those chips. And we also
understand from sources that AMD and
Nvidia had agreed as part of this deal
to get the export licenses to contribute
15% of their China sales revenue to the
US. Not clear now what the US government
will use that money for, but it is
clearly a very unprecedented sort of
arrangement, a quit proquo if you will,
to get the export licenses and really
sets the precedent for the type of
compliance costs that China that US
companies could face if they want to do
business with China. And we see those
Asian suppliers there of Nvidia really
trading pretty makes today. And our M
life strategist Garfield Reol is saying
that this could be quite negative for
the sector overall in the long term
because it shows you how arbitrary
decision-m is under the Trump
administration. And that complicates
long-term planning for the companies and
if these companies continue to show the
willingness to do whatever it takes to
get the Trump administration off their
backs, it's going to continue to erode
their profits.
>> Yeah. Does it lead to a hurdle in doing
business in China or actually
opportunity? Because I think some
analysts have said before if it was an
issue about national security that
seemed to be almost like a red line.
Right now that if it's just about paying
and and and something to do with money,
it's transactional. Maybe we can
continue to see the flow of business
between us and China continue.
>> Yeah, there's a commentary coming
through here. So out of Aberdine, right?
So I think it this is positive as far as
AI infrastructure spend in China is is
concerned though this is already in the
price ever since of course the initial
news that it was allowed on the part of
the uh on the part of the White House.
as far as concerned. But yeah, jewelry
is still out. But I mean, the market's
already running with it. And as far as I
think some of the negative impact would
be perhaps on on the mainland markets,
thank you so much, by the way. Sorry, I
forgot to thank you. Anyway, there
>> um we're watching also gold, right? So,
obviously, we've been talking about how
it reached a record again last week. You
know, we're waiting for some
clarification though, particularly when
it came to what the White House said
over its tariff policy on gold, right?
That's after a US government agency
formerly ruled last week that a 100
ounce and 1 kg bullion bars would be
subject to duties. For more, let's bring
in Martin Richie joining us from
Shanghai. Martin, obviously there's a
lot of confusion, questions about what
we learned last week. What sort of
clarity issue are we likely to get soon?
Uh yeah, absolute chaos in the gold
market frankly uh last Friday which
lasted uh I think less than 24 hours. Um
what happened was there was a there was
a ruling made by uh the American Customs
and and Border Authority uh to a single
Swiss company which said these gold bars
you've been sending to the US uh they're
no longer apply in this little customs
code. you have to dig into the details
of the way the customs works, but we're
going to apply this different code
instead. And that means uh that you're
going to face the 39% tariff that
applies to uh all imports from
Switzerland uh to the US. Uh and then
gold from all over the world flowing
gold bars flowing into the US would all
be subject to those country rates if
that was to be applied worldwide. So
this is total uh totally against what
has been convention for for many years
and you saw uh US gold futures uh
spiking early on Friday the premium of
US futures to the rest of the world
going to a clear record. Um you have
everyone in the gold market even uh you
know major uh experienced gold veterans
saying this surely must be a mistake. uh
and then by the end of the day uh
someone from the White House says uh you
know we're going to uh we're going to
correct what they called misinformation
uh in the gold market. So really we're
actually just waiting for the White
House to make that clarification. We
have no idea how long that will take but
uh at the moment it looks like um the
the disruptions were very temporary.
Although this does sort of highlight the
extent to which uh all these different
complicated tariffs that the US is
adopting can kind of so a lot of chaos
at a moment's notice.
>> Okay, Martin, thank you so much. Martin
Richie there, our metal and mining
reporter in Shanghai for us. I guess I
have to wait for clarity before I move
my truckload of 1 kilo gold bars into
the US markets. something that I do not
have a problem with because I do not
have the truckload of gold bars. Plenty
more ahead here on the China show.
[Music]
>> Why don't you take it?
>> All right, we're taking a look at
lithium stocks here right now. uh
continue to surge here this morning of
course in the back of the CL confirming
our reporting that they have paused
output at that Chinese mine. Uh it's
interesting why you're seeing this,
right? Even Bank of America's Matty
Laauo told us, right? It's not just this
mine that we need to focus on. If in
fact inspections are getting tighter,
they're talking about at least seven
more sort of sites where supply might be
suspended just given the fact that the
license and how they kind of decipher
it. Uh it might lead to some maybe
increased scrutiny.
>> Yes. And already now without even
without those coming offline, I think
they already expect a deficit market
here. to lead some to some substantial
upside near term. Yeah.
>> In the prices of lithium. So, I think
September 30 is the next uh rough date,
rough week to watch as far as that story
goes. Right before we go, just a quick
glance at the Philippine markets. The
pesos coming up on your screens. The
central bank governor is opening up the
door to at least one more rate cuts in
2025. That's it from us. We'll see you
all tomorrow.